So we just saw three different methods that we can use to select elements.
But there's actually a fourth method that rules them all.
It's called query selector and I put an image of a Swiss Army knife here because query selector is like
the Swiss army knife of Dom selectors.
It can select everything that we used it can replicate the functionality of all of the selectors here
we can select by an I.D. or a tag name or class name or many other criteria.
The way it works is that we pass in a CSX style selector so we can select a I.D. using CSX where we
pass in the hash symbol or a class we use a dot we can select an element just by writing the name of
the element just like we do in CSX over here in my style sheet.
Where are you.
Here we are we're selecting by I.D. We're selecting H1 so we're selecting by class we can select by
attribute we can do the same thing using query selector so query selector has not been a thing from
the get go it hasn't been around as long as things like get element by I.D. which is why the other ones
exist because this one is so much more versatile query selector seems like it's all you would ever need
and you can use it for everything it just hasn't been around as long but it is supported in all the
modern browsers including Internet Explorer it does work there unlike a lot of other features that we
wish would work and there are two versions of query selector what we're looking at here query selector
and also query selector all which does the same thing except it returns a collection query selector.
This slide only returns a single element at most.
So let's try it out over here if we want to select the H1 on the page we could do document dot and query
selector H1 and we pass in the string each one and we get that H1 right there if we wanted to select
the paragraph the first paragraph we could do it this way but remember it only gives us the first match
and there are two paragraphs on this page so we only get the first one.
I could also select the first input and this is essentially replicating get elements by tag name except
we're getting the first match remember that get elements by tag name gives us a array like list versus
query selector just gives us the first item the first match but we can do more complex things we could
select by an IED we have to use the hash sign in order to select an idea just like we do when we're
writing CSX so I have better photo I think if I can remember yep that's our idea for the image here.
I also had a different idea what we're you mean we could select the second paragraph by using hash and
then main so this is just like document I get element by I.D. main.
But here we don't say it's an I.D. we just pass in a string it's assumed it's an I.D. when we use query
selector we have to be more specific.
We pass in D.C. CSF style selector.
So I'm getting the same paragraph.
Now what does query selector actually returned to us.
Why don't we save both of those to a variable.
So the first one I'll save to a variable called main one and then the second one where we use get element
by I.D..
I'll save two main two I'll clear my screen and then let's do the annoying console that desire our main
one open it up.
It looks like an object.
It is an object.
It's an H HD AML paragraph element.
Let's do the same thing for main two.
Looks like an object scroll down.
It is an object and it's also an h him out paragraph element.
All right.
So they both give us the same thing in this case it's just two different ways of selecting.
We can also select by class.
If I wanted to select these elements I can only pick one.
Remember this class is used in three different places.
It's called What is it special so I can do a document that query selector of the I.D. special where
I need to use a period to signify it's an I.D..
So that gives me the first match.
This paragraph here but because I can pass in a CSF selector I can get more complex I can say the first
ally with the class of special and this is just valid CSX.
So this is no new syntax.
Assuming that you have some experience with CSX and that's why I did that whole video about making sure
you're cool with H2 amounts to SS anyway let's go ahead and try something a little more complex.
I'll add in a second.
Well with a couple allies but instead of doing it just out in the open inside the body how come down
to the end and add adding another you will.
But I'll put it inside of a section tag and then I'll have my well and a couple allies I'll do vegetables
I guess carrots peas and broccoli.
Broccoli is there to season that.
Yeah I think so.
I don't know if I'm wrong.
I'm really sorry.
Okay so I've got those in there.
Let's give peas the class of special as well.
So if I want to select this ally right here using query selector I need to refresh my page and I want
to select that ally right there with query selector.
It's not going to work just by selecting the class of special because we're getting the first special
which is up here and it's not going to work to say ally with the class of special because we have this
first one that has an ally or is is an ally with a class of special.
So how could I get more specific.
Well this one is located inside of a section tag so I could do this.
This is valid CSX section allied dot special I could even get more specific it won't make a difference
here but it's also nested in a UL instead of a section.
So this is saying find me a list item with the class of special that is nested somewhere in a U L that
is itself nested somewhere in a section tag I mean I could even do this if I really wanted to body and
get extra specific so that's another variation of query selector.
That's just a valid C Ss selector syntax.
We can also select based off of attributes.
So if I want to get this password input right now if I do document that query selector of input you
know what will happen.
We have multiple inputs.
We only get the first one which is right here typeset to text if I want that second one I can do input
where type equals and then password.
So this is using the CSX attribute selector syntax and now I get that input and we saw this syntax a
couple videos ago with CSX we did the same thing.
It's the identical selector we just moved it into a javascript string and passed it into query selector
so we're not styling anything using this.
We're purely selecting all right.
So we've seen that query selector is pretty powerful.
We can get a lot more specific.
We can even ignoring that ignoring the fact that we can get more specific and detailed.
We can use query selector in place of all those other methods we saw and then we have query selector
all which uses the exact same syntax except it returns to us a collection so not just the first result.
So if I do document that query selector of input I get the first input.
If I do a query selector all I get all inputs that match and there's three of them.
If I did document that query selector all dots let's do the class of special.
We have four items the paragraph is special and then the three allies if I do ally we get six of them
because there's six total allies on this page.
If I do something like the idea of did we have one called Main.
I think so when this paragraph or this paragraph is the idea of main we still get a collection just
with one item in it.
Notice something kind of odd this result that we're getting back is a node list.
But when we do document that let's do get elements by tag name elements by tag name of allies.
We get in H team out collection here we got something called a node list.
So what does a node list.
It's another type of a collection.
You don't need to worry about it too much here.
But if we look at what the notice contains this paragraph is still in H came out paragraph element.
It's just put it in a different container from query selector all.
That's how it works.
A node list is another array like object.
And if we play around with it we can save it to a variable.
So let's get all of the.
Which one should we do.
Let's save all of the special class elements to a variable we'll call it specials and I'll clear my
console.
Make some more room.
So we have specials.
It is an array like object so I can do specials of 0.
I can do specials dots length and then if we do specials dot and then look at what else we have.
There's really not much else but we do have for each.
So this was not available to us with a HD him our collection.
It is available with a node list but don't get bogged down.
Don't worry about it.
Honestly it's not a big deal at this point.
I just wanted to highlight that there is a slight difference.
They're not the exact same type.
They're not they're not the exact same collection that we get back or the container is different.
Both of them are fake lightweight versions of arrays so that is one difference when you use query selector
and also another difference to know about query selector is that it is a little less performance.
It's really not a big deal for the stuff we're doing but as you can imagine depending on the selector
you pass in it could have to do a lot of work compared to some of these older versions like get element
by idea or get elements by tag name.
Generally those are a little bit more optimized or a little faster but I definitely definitely would
recommend you go with query selector and it's not a good enough reason it's not a good enough difference
to not use or to avoid query selector.
All right so query SELECT your query selector all very useful.
It's what I'll be using for most of the course here because we can get more specific but also it's just
nice to use one method and not have to worry about those other methods you pass in a CSF selector as
a string and you get back either the first match if you're using query selector or you get back a collection
of all matches.
If you use query selector all.